Thalion Ebonhart
Medium Undead (Lich, Archive Guardian), Neutral Evil
Armor Class 16 (natural armor)Hit Points 140 (20d8 + 40)Speed 30 ft., fly 30 ft. (hover)
STR
DEX
CON
INT
WIS
CHA
10 (+0)
14 (+2)
14 (+2)
20 (+5)
15 (+2)
16 (+3)
Saving Throws Int +8, Wis +5, Cha +6Skills Arcana +8, History +8, Perception +5Damage Resistances Cold, Lightning, NecroticDamage Immunities PoisonCondition Immunities Charmed, Exhaustion, Frightened, PoisonedSenses darkvision 120 ft., passive Perception 15Languages Common, Elvish, Draconic, plus any languages relevant to the Forbidden ArchivesChallenge 9 (5,000 XP)

Lich-Lite Traits
Legendary Resistance (2/Day). If Thalion fails a saving throw, he can choose to succeed instead.
Rejuvenation (Phylactery). If Thalion is destroyed, his essence returns to a hidden phylactery deep within the Forbidden Archives. He regains a physical form in 1d10 days, unless the phylactery is found and destroyed.
Magic Resistance. Thalion has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
Spellcasting (Arcane). Thalion is a 10th-level spellcaster. His spellcasting ability is Intelligence (spell save DC 16, +8 to hit with spell attacks). He has the following wizard spells prepared:
Cantrips (at will):Chill Touch, Ray of Frost, Mage Hand, Minor Illusion
1st Level (4 slots):Mage Armor, Magic Missile, Shield, Detect Magic
2nd Level (3 slots):Misty Step, Invisibility, Mirror Image
3rd Level (3 slots):Counterspell, Fireball, Animate Dead
4th Level (3 slots):Ice Storm, Blight, Greater Invisibility
5th Level (2 slots):Hold Monster, Cone of Cold
(Adjust spells to suit your table; these give a balanced mix of offense, defense, and control.)

Actions
Paralyzing Touch. Melee Spell Attack: +8 to hit, reach 5 ft., one creature.Hit: 10 (3d6) cold damage. The target must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or be paralyzed for 1 minute. The target can repeat the save at the end of each of its turns, ending the effect on itself on a success.
Rotting Gaze (Recharge 5–6).Thalion’s eyes briefly flare with sickly green light. One creature he can see within 30 feet must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw, taking 21 (6d6) necrotic damage on a failed save, or half as much on a success. A creature that fails by 5 or more also gains one level of Exhaustion (representing the draining effect of ancient necrotic knowledge).

Legendary Actions
Thalion can take 3 legendary actions, choosing from the options below. Only one legendary action can be used at a time, and only at the end of another creature’s turn. Thalion regains spent legendary actions at the start of his turn.
Cantrip (Costs 1 Action). Thalion casts a cantrip.
Move (Costs 1 Action). Thalion moves up to his speed without provoking opportunity attacks, floating gracefully if he wishes.
Spellcasting (Costs 2 Actions). Thalion casts a 1st- or 2nd-level spell he has prepared.

Behavior & Tactics
Defensive Magic:
Often pre-casts Mage Armor if he anticipates intruders.
Uses Mirror Image, Greater Invisibility, or Shield to stay alive against sudden aggression.
Will not hesitate to Counterspell powerful spells at crucial moments.
Offensive & Control:
If foes cluster, Thalion might open with Fireball or Cone of Cold.
Paralyzing Touch is used on the biggest threat if they close in.
He leverages Blight or Ice Storm to punish mid-range attackers, and Hold Monster to incapacitate a key target.
Legendary Resistances and Magic Resistance:
Let him shrug off single-target disables or area debuffs.
He’s a master at negating spells or forcing the party to coordinate multiple attempts.
Use of Legendary Actions:
At initiative’s end, he’ll often cast a cantrip to finish a wounded target or Move to reposition behind cover.
Spellcasting (2 actions) might see him Misty Step if cornered, or cast a timely Invisibility.
High-Level Knowledge:
Thalion might toy with intruders, questioning their motives about the Stone of Oblivion.
If impressed by the party’s wisdom, he might offer a chance to speak or to answer a riddle—but he is quick to punish arrogance or deception.
